For the schmup I wanted to remix the genre of schmup itself. I wanted to try and create a game where the act of 
shooting can have adverse consequences for the player. This means the player has to be considerate when firing.
No longer can the  player just hold down the shoot button to consistently be firing. How I did this within my remix was 
I implemented a knock back every time the player shoots. Depending on the strength of the weapon, and the number of weapons 
the knock back differs. Meaning the strongest weapon with the most of that weapon means the most amount of push back. 
This adds a level of meaningful choice where the player now wonders if they want to upgrade their ship weaponry or not. 

The way player can get damaged from the pushback is their is now a moving red zone at the bottom of the screen and if the 
player touches the area they lose health. The red area at the  bottom is mapped with perlin noise, so it is constantly 
moving up and down. Additionally, it is score dependent so the higher your score, the farther the red area will move up 
towards you. This was just to make it harder the longer you are alive. 

One of the biggest notes I got from my playtesting was that  the game was too hard. To combat this I put in a more dynamic 
enemy spawn rate. It is also based on the score,  so more enemies are spawned the higher your score. I also added in a score 
to the game, but it is kind of bugged and isn’t counting fully correctly, but we are still in beta. 

Next I added in a couple of new power ups. I added in a new weapon type, being a phaser. It is a very fast and powerful 
weapon, but it has the most push back correlated with it, so it is a double edged sword. Next, I added in an invincibility 
power up. If you pick up the power up you become invincible for 4 seconds, and can still fire. Both I feel are good additions 
to the game especially with the notes of it being too difficult. 

Other things I did was tweak a bunch of the book values to better suit my game. I changed power up drop rates and speed of 
the enemies. I tried to dynamically change the speed of the enemies, but it didn’t seem to work out too well, so I just upped 
the speed on most and tried to find  a happy medium. 

Overall I  like how  my game came out. I feel like the concept behind it is interesting and I tried to design around that 
main feature of knockback. The playtesters that I have had so far enjoy it, especially now that it is a little bit easier. 
